1.

Hi I'm Ben Wndt

Today we're going to talk about:
what a Bayesian Classifier is
Go Over Bayes' Theorem, which is what makes it work
Explain the algorithm
Then dive into some code

2.

In Machine Learning you generally use statistics to make
predictions based on your data Set

In a Bayesian Classifier, we use what is essentially some
high-school level probability to
extrapolate from our data to make predictions.

Bayesian probability is the branch of statistics that deals
with using your past experience
to make a prediction of future events

3. just read the slide

4. Say Bayes invented the technique in broad terms, then threw
it in a drawer and forgot about it

Mention the table, then change slides.

5. Table demo

Here we have a yellow ball thrown on the table. But we don't know where it is. All we can do is
throw more balls on the table and ask an assistant whether the new ball is above or below, right or left

let's take a looking

6. Richard Price - protege of Bayes, formalized the theorem after Bayes' death. Still didn't really
catch on.

Pierre Laplace (The Man Who Did Everything, or The French Newton). Put the theory on a solid mathematical
ground and employed it throughout his career.

7. Notation slide, basically have to read this off.

8. derivation 1.

An axiom in mathematics is like an atom of thought. It's a definition so basic that you can't
easily make further definitions that aren't cyclical. It might seem like cheating to
pull an equation out of thin air, but it's actually necessary. Sometimes there are competing
axioms that lead to different but equally useful models.

This axiom makes sense intuitively if we think of it this way: For both A and B to happen,
first A has to happen, and then B can happen, or vise versa.

9. You can't have a talk about probability without bad Venn diagrams.

In this Venn diagram we see the intersection a∩b. If A happens, b had to happen too.

10. so we divide through the axiom by the probability of b.

11. If we look at the axiom, we can reverse our terms and it's still equal to the same.

12. Swap that in for the old numerator (maybe quickly slide back) and we get Bayes Theorem.

And read off the terms.

13. So let's do a simple example of Bayes Theorem so we can see how it works.

14. You can't do a talk about probability without a terrible drawing of balls in
bags.

In our example we have two bags. One with two red and one yellow ball, one with two
yellow and one red ball.

Suppose we pull a yellow ball out of one bag. What's the probability we got bag A?

This could be useful because this will inform the probability of future draws.

15. Read off the equation. And stress what each term means. Note That this is basically a
classification problem.

16.
SO the probability of a yellow ball given bag is 1/3.
Probability of bag A is 1/2
And probability of a yellow ball is 3/6.
And the answer is 1/3.

17. Bayes is often used to illustrate the counter-intuitive nature of guesses
and pre-conceptions. So let's do one of those.

Now say you work at a big software company with about a thousand employees.

You see someone walk out of a boardroom and think to yourself "hey that person seems odd"

Your preconception is that most fortran developers are odd, so you think "maybe that is a
fortran developer". Let's take a look and see whether that is likely.

18. Walk through the example and give estimate numbers for everything.

19. Blows people's minds and permanently erase prejudice from the face of the earth.

20, 21, 22. The svg slides. Know what to say here.

23. So that's a quick and dirty intro to basic use of Bayes' Theorem.
But as developers we can apply this to very quickly make pretty good
classifications on data given a trained
set of probabilities. Let's take a look at what that might look like.

24. Say you run a news aggregator. You get jillions of articles and you want to assign
the ones that don't have a "newspaper section" a category.

But you do have thousands if not millions of classified records. How would we classify
records based on their headlines?

Show the table and describe how each headline maps to a known section.

25. Let's break up the example data by word in the title and count up occurrences
cross-tabulated to the section.

Show the table and describe what it means

26. Now imagine we ran through our septillion documents, we'd get something similar, for example like this

This is our table of prior probabilities. We should be able to use Bayes theorem with this table
to predict things.

27. So what happens if a new document comes in titled "team wins" (our intuition tells us that this
should be a sports document, but what does Bayes Theorem tell us?)

28. Now I had to look up this formula. It's actually pretty complicated
and there are things in here that we didn't track in our priors table.
Not to say that's impossible, but we didn't do it. For only
two terms, this is already getting out of hand. Now is a good time to
make a simplification.

29. Naivety. This slide I can basically read off.

30. Naivety diagram: Imagine we have a dictionary with only four words If each of these boxes is a
title. Then these images would show what two documents with independent words in the titles would look
like.

31. But in reality there is dependence between words. You would expect certain words to exist together
more often than others. E.g. Intel would go with pentium more often than brioche.

32. But anyways, we assume independence in naive Bayes. That's what makes it naive. It's not a perfect
model, but it does quite well. Here we see what the equation is for calculating the naive bayes
probability for our new document.

33. And here's the general case. We'll take the product of all given priors times to probability of
the class, divide by the product of the priors for each feature.

34. And here that is in more mathematical notation using capital pi. Can't have a presentation
about probability without a capital sigma or capital pi at some point. To me this really
motivates a for-loop or reduce operation, so that's cool.

35. So let's talk about the psuedo code before we actually do an implementation of this stuff.
As mentioned, we're going to be multiplying a bunch of pre-calculated probabilities together.

36. Instead of doing multiplication of the probabilities we are going to take the logarithm
of each and add them up. Note at this point, we aren't actually calculating the bayesian
prob for each class, we just want to see which class gets the highest score.

Second we do addition rather than mult because if we multiply too many tiny numbers together
we will get an float underflow and our results will lose meaning.

37. And we won't divide by the product of all the terms because that is the same for each class.

It is work we don't need to do, se we don't do it.

38. Describe the psuedo code.

39. Describe the training pseudo code.

40. Demo the real code that works.

41. The end.
